now for our feature of the day will
visit the perfect place to see
superheroes cross generation comics a
brand new comic book company located in
Oldsmar Florida we'll get an up-close
look at how comic books are made so come
with me now and we'll take the Grand
Tour
well here at cross generation comics in
altamar Florida and I don't know about
you but I love comic books I love
superheroes and fantasy worlds and oh hi
I'm Bruce blitz hi Bruce welcome to
cross generation comics thank you I'm
Andy Smith I'm an anchor on our new
title the first which just came out
yesterday
no kidding well you know what I've been
reading cross generation comics and I'll
tell you they are absolutely fantastic
could you tell us a little bit about the
company
sure we're a very unique company in the
fact that our whole creative staff is
under one roof unlike other companies
where the creative staff is usually
spread nationwide sometimes worldwide
so the penciler doesn't get to see the
colorist and the colorist doesn't get to
see the story writer exactly but here we
can all get together and really figure
out the best stories and artwork to put
out the best product and it doesn't just
take one or two people to do that
obviously it takes a lot of people to
make the creative process happen is that
correct well it takes a lot of people
and here we've assembled the best talent
we could possibly find and put out the
best product now where does it all begin
what's the very first step it starts
with the writer which would be barbecue
so so why don't I show you to her office
that sounds great okay
hi Barbara this is Bruce hi Barbara hi
Bruce nice to meet you nice to meet you
too Barbara is the head writer at
cross-gen and she writes the first so I
need to get back to work and while I'm
doing that you two can talk about what
she does I will catch up with you later
okay Perce thank you yep Barbara where
does a story come from how does it all
begin well you sit around and daydream
ideas and sometimes you go back to
sources like mythology or Shakespeare or
just things you've observed and put them
all together and make characters out of
them and then toss them into soup and
see what they'll do very cool it must be
a great way to spend your time coming up
with stories and fantasies and things
like that that's a fun way to spend your
time and what I end up with is a plot
like this where I've outlined what
exactly will go on to the page but the
best part is where and I pass this off
to someone like our penciler Bart Sears
to have him make it into art and bring
it to life so it goes to the pencil
stage now mm-hmm well thank you very
much you're welcome let's go
now we're here at the pencil stage and
we're with the artist that does the
penciling but not just any artists we're
here with Bart Sears hi Bart nice to
meet you it's my pleasure
Bart has worked with every major comic
book company that there is and now he's
found his home with cross generation
comics well it's great to have you now
would you tell us a little bit about
what you would do with the script at
this point well of course when I get the
script it's only words words on a page
yeah okay new make it visual yeah I have
to take these words and make something
out of them for instance with page 13 I
decided to take one image from that page
and make it a whole splash page I
approached that each pages I start with
a little thumbnail just a tiny sketch an
idea of what I want to do from there I
go to a larger version which is about
half size of what the final version will
be and I work out more of the details
and bring it up to a point where I can
actually finish pencil it which I do on
the full size paper which is a 10 by 15
I say so you go from here and then we'll
show us a little bit how you do that
let's see you in action
all right what I'll do is I'll draw one
of my favorite characters in the first
his name's Anson okay now this is pretty
much your you can just tell the story
from anything you want now I mean it's
up to you to tell it visually any way
you want they give you some you know
indication and on the script pretty much
this is your ball game at this point
yeah once the writer is done with the
script it's in my court and I get to I
have to make the decisions that make the
book you know visually look well and
they give historic law well they give
you the parameters how many pages but
it's a beautified about panel wise any
way you want yeah they always give ideas
of what they think but when it comes
down to it it's the artists job to make
those decisions I see now how important
was it for you to learn Anatomy and tell
our friends at home how important that
was to do superhero work as opposed to
the traditional bubble in those kind of
characters it's uh it's vital when
you're drawing superhero comics or any
kind of daily comics with real people
you need to understand anatomy and form
and perspective mmm-hmm and one thing I
found with art is that every every
aspect of art every project I might have
thought was silly in high school was
vitally important I go back to this
the little things I learned drawing
those vases and flowers and sure
everyday everything is interconnected
that way so it was important it's not
something that our friends should leave
out in the drill now mm-hmm
not at all okay well I could watch you
draw all day but from here what would
happen with the next step who would take
it from here
the next step is to go to the inker okay
well I want to thank you for showing us
this stage Thank You mrs. great it's
been my pleasure